# Text Summarization App with Streamlit and Hugging Face Transformers

This project demonstrates a simple text summarization web application built using Streamlit and the Hugging Face Transformers library. The app uses a pre-trained abstractive summarization model to generate summaries of user-input text.

## Demo

You can try out a live demo of the app on Hugging Face Spaces: https://huggingface.co/spaces/antonsoloviev/text-summarization-app

## Project Description

This application allows users to input a piece of text and get a concise summary generated by an AI model. It leverages the power of the `facebook/bart-large-cnn` model from Hugging Face's Transformers library, which is a powerful model trained on a large dataset of news articles.

The app is built using Streamlit, a Python framework that makes it easy to create interactive web applications with minimal code.

## Features

*   User-friendly interface built with Streamlit.
*   Abstractive text summarization using the `facebook/bart-large-cnn` model.
*   Adjustable summary length (within the model's limits).
*   Deployed on Hugging Face Spaces for easy access.

## Installation

Note: You can look at my Google Colab Notebook in the notebooks directory in this project. Otherwise:

To run this app locally, you need to have Python 3.7 or higher installed, along with the following packages:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

------------------

Usage:

1) Clone this repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/antonsoo/text-summarization-app/
```

2) Navigate to the project directory:

```bash
cd text-summarization-app
```

3) Run the Streamlit app (This will open the app in your default web browser.):

```bash
streamlit run app.py
```

------------------

Model Details:

- Base Model: facebook/bart-large-cnn
- Inference: The app uses the Hugging Face pipeline for simplified inference.

------------------

Contributing:

Feel free to contribute to this project by submitting pull requests or opening issues.

------------------

License:

This project is licensed under the MIT - see the LICENSE file for details.

------------------

Contact:

Anton Soloviev - UpWork: https://www.upwork.com/freelancers/~01b9d171164a005062

------------------

Acknowledgements:

Hugging Face for the Transformers library and the pre-trained models.

Streamlit for the easy-to-use web app framework.
